And Then There Were None - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
I'm a big lover of Agatha Christie, she has written some fantastic murder mysteries and her stories never get tiring. But this is the one that just comes out on top every time. It partly, and quite amusingly, reminds me of that old American murder mystery in Sunset Beach. Basically, they're the only ones on this island and someone is killing them off one by one in accordance with the Ten Little Indians rhyme. And I swear I never saw it coming, and I'm usually very good at it. It's just a very clever novel, full of mystery and suspense and easily quite frightening at times. I like how Agatha Christie doesn't have to write a 500 page novel with a massive back story, her mysteries are very simply put together but always clever and hard to decipher. I would recommend this book to everyone.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
"We're not going to leave the island… None of us will ever leave … It's the end, you see—the end of everything…."

Even amongst the tableau of exceptional mysteries that Agatha Christie is known for, And Then There Were None stands out as something extraordinary. It is arguably Christie's most beloved piece of work, and for good reason. Right from the start, this story feels unusual and steeped in atmosphere. Ten strangers are summoned to Soldier Island, but when they arrive, the host is missing. The guests look at each other with suspicion. Why are they here? What could be the purpose of such a gathering? Soon a storm arrives and cuts off all ability to leave the island. And they start dying, one by one.

Ah, a locked-room mystery. My word, is there anything better? When done right, it offers such delight and satisfaction, and this story is the quintessential example. No one can get off the island, no one can get on the island. So it must be one of the guests. But which one is it? And how are they doing it?

This is quite an intricate mystery, with many characters and moving parts. Christie herself even mentioned that this was a difficult one for her to write, requiring lots of careful planning to come to fruition. But all that meticulousness certainly paid off.

If you're a mystery reader and somehow this book has escaped your attention, it's absolutely worth adding to your list. It's impossible to understand the landscape of modern mysteries without having seen where they come from.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
5 stars to Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None. This is the book that started my absolute love of the mystery genre. I was addicted and must have read it 3 or 4 times over the course of the year. Between the poem, the deserted island, the plot twist, the count-down, the pure clandestine suspense... it couldn't get any better.

Story: Ten people receive a mystery letter from someone they don't know that indicates they should come to a remote island. After arriving, they try to figure out the connection between all of them while waiting for their mysterious host. After coming across a cute little poem about how ten little indians die, they decide they will wait it out until the next morning when the ferry comes back to take them home. But it will never come! Each guest suddenly dies matching the line from the poem resulting in alliances and mistrust.

Strengths: Plot - can you get any better than telling the reader that 10 people will die and then guessing the order and the weapon? Characters - All walks of life, all personalities. You'll love some and hate some!

Weaknesses: Only that there wasn't a follow-up.

If you are a mystery fan, you must read this. If you've never read Agatha Christie, this must be your first - before you tackle Miss Marple or Hercule Poirot.

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
And Then There Were None is one of Agatha Christie's most celebrated mystery novels, and purportedly one of the most difficult for her to write. I don't dislike this book. It seems to be a favorite among many, but it's very middle of the road for me as far as Mystery/Thriller books go.

The Good: I enjoy the setup and how this mystery is structured. It's fun and easy to engage with. It's written well with an accurate insight on human desperation. The length (only 264 pages) and pacing of this novel is very appropriate.

The Bad: I did not care about even one of these characters past seeing the creative ways the author would kill them off. Probably the most disappointing part of my experience, I was not impressed with the conclusion of this mystery. It relies wholly on the very last section of the book to lay out the details and explain the unknown bits. It's very: "Oh, by the way here's what happened." Anti-climactic to say the least.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
I want to start off by saying if i had been alive in 1939 and read this when it was first published, i would have given this 5 stars. without a doubt. theres a reason this story is one of the best-selling books of all time - the concept paved the way for the whodunnit mysteries of today.

that being said, because the influence of this book is so far-reaching, it didnt feel like it was new. ive read this format in many other novels and seen it in many films. this isnt the books fault - its just an unfortunate consequence of exposure.

i also am not a fan of ACs writing style. it feels so sterile to me. yes, the characters and facts are presented in a very straight-forward way and its very easy to follow along, but the lack of descriptive narration just isnt my style. i also feel like all of the characters are carbon copies of each other - i was constantly confusing them because there is no personalisation to their characterisation.

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
Well, folks, I guess it's my turn to be an outlier again. I can't tell you how much I was looking forward to reading this classic. This novel, originally published in 1939, has well over a million reviews here on Goodreads, and, as far as I can see, the majority of them are favorable and enthusiastic. I get it; the story is iconic.

But, this reader had so many issues. The writing is far from memorable. I found the "letter in the bottle" at the end of the book to be absolutely ridiculous and insulting to my intelligence. None of the motives given by the "killer" made a lick of sense to me.

Also, enough of the anti-Semitism and racism! Agatha Christie, too? Are there no role models from this time?

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
I was supposed to care when the people started dying right? Well, I didn't. Quite frankly every single character in this book is extremely dull and not surprisingly the book overall is a snooze-fest. I did not care who was murdering them. In the very beginning I was intrigued by Soldier Island but when everyone comes together it is glaringly clear that they are all a bore and the book was not going to improve. Overall I felt like I was reading the game Clue. I doubt I will be reading another Agatha Christie novel as this is touted as one of her better ones and I was bored to tears.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
This is an awful book. Christie gives virtually no clues to the murderer. The characters wander around a house on a small island off the Devon coast wondering who's doing it and who's going to be next. Yes, an epilogue is needed to explain what happened, as the story is devoid of clues. There is the vaguest of motives (Justice!), but how did the murderer know all these people's histories to collect them on the island? That would have been one key clue to knowing who the murderer was, but Christie brushed this aside in an unconvincing way. The writing was choppy. There was no tension; after all, everyone was going to die.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
I'm surprised that this story is the best selling mystery book of all time. I guess I am in the minority, but I didn't think this book was that good. I would call it mediocre. The overall situation into which the characters were placed was intriguing and, at first, I thought the story would be an interesting one. Sadly, the story began to break down shortly after each of the main characters had been introduced. The biggest problem was that the characters' actions and conversations were not indicative of people who would be put into such a horrifying situation. This made the story seem too contrived and stiff. Several of the story elements were very amateurishly done. I don't think I'll be picking up any Agatha Christie novels in the future.
