Death on the Nile - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
With a large cast of fascinating characters and an equally intriguing plot to match, Death on the Nile is the perfect mystery. I am a longtime fan of Agatha Christie, particularly her Hercule Poirot series, and she truly outdid herself with this one.

It is a rare moment as of late that I enjoy all the female characters in a book, but this book did it for me. From Jackie to Cornelia to Rosalie, I adored the women of Death on the Nile. On to the story, and mystery, itself, I absolutely loved it. I had my mind entirely made up on who it was about 5 times, one of which was actually correct but I had no idea at the time. Instead, I kept guessing, sure I was wrong.

For fans of mysteries that are nearly impossible to put down, this is the book for you.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
Having been written in the late 30s, Death on the Nile is one of Agatha Christie's masterpieces.

Newlyweds Linnet Ridgeway and Simon Doyle decide to venture themselves into Cairo. Linnet Ridgeway being one of the richest women in the world, she's also the center of attention by people who despise her because of her beauty, wit, wealth and more. While on the Karnak she's shot on the head causing her death. Who might've killed her and why? There are several people on the boat who might have wanted her dead because of different reasons. This is where the renowned Hercule Poirot comes into action.

Prepare yourself to be entertained by a peculiar set of characters that will become part of your routine until this crime is solved.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
This was fantastic! I was transported back to the mid 90s when I was a teen watching episodes of Murder She Wrote with the family. This is a classic whodunit! Professor Plum in the library with the candlestick kind of vibes. I read this for a Book club. It was my first Agatha Christie and it won't be my last!

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
This book is a bit slow going in with character introduction, but once all the characters board SS. Karnak, the story really took off for me. Death on the Nile features heiress Linnet Ridgeway, her longtime friend Jacqueline de Bellefort, and fiance Simon Doyle. Hercule Poirot is on vacation and taking the Nile cruise as many other secondary characters. I thought the mystery was good and I enjoy listening to Poirot's train of thought, but I felt the reveal was somewhat underwhelming.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
I tried so hard to love this book but it was only mediocre for me. When I started the book, I found it a little confusing because there were so many characters I was trying to keep straight. Several friends recommended watching the movie first. So I took a break from the book and watched the movie, which did indeed make the characters much clearer and easier to remember. I restarted the book after finishing the movie, and it was definitely easier to read at that point but I still didn't love it. This was my 1st Agatha Christie novel and I'm not giving up on her, going to try another one by her soon.

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
This was my second Poirot after Murder On The Orient Express a few years ago. It was good, but not quite as good as Orient Express. It felt similar - as I am guessing they all do. Convoluted at times. I was surprised by a lot of it, but did guess a few things. I enjoyed the characters and the dialogue. Good fun, but not monumentally mind-blowing. Worth reading for a fun little getaway that will get your mind-juices flowing.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
Forced myself to get through a large chunk of it but I couldn't even make it past the first murder. Did no one else find the colonialist attitudes of the characters and the speaking down towards those who were of a lower social class or of colour uncomfortable? The descriptions of and attitudes towards the local Egyptians were just so messed up. They were literally referred to as flies, as something revolting and irritating causing displeasure to the white characters out on a vacation. Shame that the locals with their black skin and poverty put a dimmer on their perfect little vacation. Not to mention the super stereotypical depiction of an Italian man who was really present for no other reason than for there to be a stereotypical Italian man.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
This DOES NOT stand the test of time! This was my second Hercule Poirot novel after Murder on the Orient Express and my opinion remains unchanged. I genuinely cannot fathom how Agatha Christie's books are rated so highly on goodreads. This book is not at all subtle in its suspense/thrill. Within 18% completion of this book itself I had the ending narrowed down. The only saving grace seems to be the multitude of characters introduced as page fillers and the novelty of the plot setting being an Egyptian cruise. This might have been a page turner during the pre World War 2 era, but NOT more than 80 years later.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
This book was not for me. Just could not get over the entire premise of a heroic man saving all the dithering women from themselves and their turbulent emotions. It had some pretty racist moments as well. The book was written in 1937 by a white author so it's not a surprise, and perhaps is a good learning moment. But personally it just wasn't an enjoyable read to me, especially in comparison with other murder mysteries I've read recently.
