The Girl on the Train - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
This book was INTOXICATING. I loved every single second of it. While I had gone into this story thinking it was going to be packed with suspenseful scenes, the mystery was really in the storytelling. It was unexpected but executed SOOOO well. A+ use of an unreliable narrator that propelled the story way beyond what I had originally anticipated.

Not only was it extremely thrilling and kept me intrigued the entire time, but I seriously appreciated how accurate the representation of alcoholism was. While the events of the story were not necessarily the most realistic, many of the characters felt real; like people who could actually exist, who had authentic thoughts and feelings I could see reflected in actual people. It was a fantastic novel and I would highly highly recommend it.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
Rachel rides the commuter train every day. She has a favorite house and couple she likes to look at while she rides by. She even invented names and lives for this couple. But after Megan goes missing, Rachel begins to investigate to find out what happened to her. Rachel is also an alcoholic and has blackouts. She had a blackout the night Megan disappeared and Rachel was actually in the area where Megan went missing.

I really enjoyed this book! I liked the atmosphere, the train rides, the suspense, the way the story unfolded. It was easy to read and told by three points of view and I was really curious to see how everything turned out. Many characters were very unlikable but I was interested enough with the story to find out more about them.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
A mystery that genuinely keeps you on your toes and the edge of your seat! I was thoroughly invested in the storyline and I genuinely couldn't guess what was about to happen at first. Everything does become more clear as the pages go on, but the slow reveal was done very well.

The characters were all very complex and written incredibly well. They all brought about very intense feelings and thoughts within me. It was very intriguing to read about all the justifications and thought-processes they all had behind their own actions.

I even started to feel an immense sort of pride for one of the characters: Rachel. She had been through so much and she had become so incredibly pathetic, so it was very impactful to see how it all got to be that way, but, even more, to see her take back her own power. I think the strongest part of her character arc is that we find out the truth about her past right alongside with her. So yes, the way her character was written was truly a masterpiece.

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
This was a perfectly decent, well-crafted thriller, which I happened not to like very much, for reasons that have little to do with its craft or its quality. The plot is fast-moving and with some real surprises. The portrayal of alcoholism is great.

However the title - I'm getting tired of these vaguely infantilizing titles that refer to mature women as "girls." The multiple-person narration was nicely-handled, except that all three narrators sounded the same, to the extent of noticing the same things and recording them in the exact same register and vocabulary.

Although I have no problem enjoying books with unsympathetic characters, I found the women in this book not only unsympathetic, but really rather dull, relying on the "damaged woman" trope for interest, rather than investing the characters with anything more tangible.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
I don't even know if I expected more of this book, but the thing is... it felt lacking to me. The pace was slow and sometimes the chapters were just plain boring, I only started being intrigued towards the end. I didn't find it predictable, I couldn't guess the final outcome until all the clues were laid in front of me, and yes, I was kind of surprised, but it wasn't mind blowing, it was more like: "Oh... really?"

Also, the characters were hateful. AND I KNOW I wasn't supposed to sympathize with them, but I didn't even find them interesting, I wasn't rooting for anyone, I didn't care about what happened to any of them.

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
Seems like this train took everyone to Gushland, but I got waylaid in Mediocre-ville. Comparing this book to Hitchcock is just laughable. The voyeurism at the start is pretty cool. A great beginning. But I wish Rachel had stayed on the train.

Instead the story is all about Rachel getting drunk, Rachel calling her ex while drunk, Rachel trying to remember things that happened while drunk, Rachel pissing off her roommate while drunk, and Rachel being ashamed about being drunk. And around and around. Yes, this gets really boring.

All three women speak in the exact same way; their voices are interchangeable. This makes them seem less like real characters. The final scenes are well-written and action-packed, but the majority of the book is sort of slow and repetitive.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
This has frequently been called the next Gone Girl. And yes, that is to some extent why I wanted to read this. I wanted something suspenseful; an unreliable narrator; and lots of what the hell moments. Out of these three things I got one - an unreliable narrator. But one written so clumsily and shallow that I was annoyed, not intrigued, by her.

However, the worst thing about Rachel weren't the cliches about alcoholism and divorced women. The absolute worst thing about Rachel and the two other female narrators was how pathetic they were. Throughout the book I got the feeling that Paula Hawkins must hate women; hate them with a passion. Women in this novel are portrayed as unstable, weak, dependent on men, and insecure. Every single woman mentioned defines her personality in relation to a man.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
I just sent a 3 page, 3,000 word email about why I didn't like this book to a friend, and I still feel the urge to express myself. I suppose that tells you just how much I disliked it. This thing is a hot mess, the writing is clumsy, there are things that don't make any sense, the characters are pathetic and the opposite of complex.

The women in this book are either defined by the men they are dating/married to, or by how they feel about being a mother. The plot twist is easy to guess not even halfway through the book. Exposition, people. There isn't any. Also, I didn't know thriller translated to no character development.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
this. book. suuuuuuuucks. i can't believe it was an international sensation. i can't believe it was adapted into a movie. this is just a straight up bad book on every level. the characters are so insanely unlikable it's cartoonish.

this would be maybe okay or at least survivable if this book was scary or thrilling or spooky or intriguing at all, but guess what, it isn't. just some lady getting blasted on vodka and riding a train. looking out some windows. sometimes sneaking a peek at a house. the entertainment potential is almost overwhelming. honestly all i really want from a thriller is some thrills. bottom line: straight up one of the worst books i've ever read.
