It - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
I got my first copy of IT when I was 10 years old. The checkout counter loomed above me and the cashier said "You don't want to read this." I assured her I did and she reluctantly let me purchase it. I'd already seen the mini series with Tim Curry and was fully prepared for scares after devouring dozens of Goosebumps and Fear Streets.

It wasn't easy. Adult minds were still foreign to me and experiencing this blend of childhood and adulthood through King's insurmountable character development was startling. Significantly more startling than when Georgie gets gobbled up.

Fast forward 11 years to when I'm 21, about to graduate college and about to move 1,000 miles away from my family. On a subconscious level, I think, I realized it was time to revisit IT. Now, at this point in my life, I needed a textbook. I needed to know how to fight demons and escape the past, but not forget about it either. I needed to learn how to survive. That summer I didn't stop at page 250. I read it to the end, and it was exactly what I needed.

Reading it every 11 years might just be the tradition I need. Because let's face it, I need IT in my thirties just like I needed IT in my twenties, just like I needed IT at ten. Our minds change, our bodies change, but so much remains the same.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
Stephen King never stops to amaze me with his brilliant mind and fabulous stories. I feel like his mind is always restless, always in a good mood to find the worst ways possible to scare the soul out of me. The King of Horror Stephen King is. No doubt.

It is so far my favourite work of his. I lift it to the rank of a horror masterpiece. It is brilliant, it is amazing, it is incredible. Best horror I've read, hands down. It is macabre, it is sick, it is wrong, but the way it is put together lures you deep into the plot until the moment you realise you cannot get out until you finish.

Everything is put in there with a precise purpose. Nothing is random. Every little detail has its own place in the mechanism of the storyline. Every single character has a strange particularity that makes him or her unique in his or her weirdness. Bill Denbrough stutters, Eddie Kaspbrak has all the malfunctions in the world, Ben Hanscom is fat, Richie Tozier has a big mouth getting him in big trouble, Mike Hanlon is a black boy, Stan Uris is a Christ-killing Jew and Bev Marsh has some serious Daddy issues. But all of them make a common front, gathering their weirdness and awkwardness and becoming friends and partners in a demon's annihilation.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
IT was my first King and it really was what got me hooked onto King's writing. I was almost apprehensive at rereading this masterpiece - not just because of its size - but I was afraid that it would tarnish my memories from my first read. However, I can confidently say that it was even better.

This book is great. IT is simply chockfull of paragraphs and sentences where you need to just stop and pause, and let the awesomeness sink in. You will feel ALL the emotions when reading this book - heartache, fear, joy, sadness... you will laugh, you will cry, you will feel like you ARE a member of the Loser's Club.

Speaking of the Loser's Club, they have to be one of the most well-developed group of characters I've ever encountered. People sometimes complain about the length of IT, and perhaps I'm slightly biased, but I love the size and it's probably why you feel kinda lost when you finish - you're so deeply entrenched in this world that leaving again is heartbreaking.

King's depiction of childhood friendships is something special, it really brings you back to your youth, when everything seemed to be heightened - your first love/crush, the connections and bonds you felt with your friends.

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
Only Stephen King could write an eleven hundred page book about the innocence and wonder of childhood, and then kick it off with a six-year-old boy getting his arm ripped off by a clown.

Derry, Maine, in 1958 is a bad place to be if you're a kid. Child disappearances and murders are occurring with astonishing regularity. These seven kids eventually band together into a self-proclaimed Loser's Club dedicated to destroy the evil they call It.

With this one King threw a kitchen sink full of monsters into this with the villain able to take the form of whatever will scare its latest victim the most. The concept that it's the belief system of the kids that they use as their main weapon against It was a clever idea.

However, I've never been as high on this one as a lot of King fans are. It's some of King's best work at tapping into the minds of kids as well as the bittersweet nature of looking back at that time as an adult, but it's also one where he gave in to his worst impulses in letting the book bloat far beyond what was needed to tell the story.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
A thousand plus page monster with a two-letter title. King has crafted not just a story, but an idea for a story, that fear itself can be a celestial being, an entity, a personification of what lurks deep down in each of us.

At once a charming but disturbing exploration about childhood and growing up, this is also a statement about our emerging and evolving culture as the scenes of racism, sexism and casual violence will attest. King has proven his mastery at tugging on the strings that scare us and he is in fine form here.

I have to admit that one of the things that kept me away for so long was the length of the novel. That's a lot of words on a lot of pages. To be sure, this never lags too much and King serves up buffet sized portions of backstory and sub-plots. All in all this is an admirable, entertaining work and it deserves its many accolades, I just felt bogged down by its totality.

REVIEW 6 (1 star):
I was into it when it was an ancient and unspeakable force of evil that commonly manifested as a clown, even though the whole book was unnecessarily long and King felt it necessary to describe everything that happened down to the consistency of the shit running down their legs when they soiled themselves but, Goddammit, the ending was fucking terrible, made no sense, and was incredibly sexist.

Like, I can't get over that the eleven year old girl's one contribution to the adventure was letting her six male friends fuck her in the tunnel so they'd somehow magically remember where to go? Like, what the fuck? I can't believe I had to wade through 1077 pages to get to that shitshow of an ending. Stephen King is a talented writer and seems like a pretty cool dude, but what the fuck, man, get a decent editor. This could have been 300 pages and we wouldn't have lost anything.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
This book. This fucking book. Why does this book have such a high rating? What are you all reading that I missed? Why is this book about a psychotic clown, sort of, who actually appears in this book only a handful of times, ELEVEN-FUCKING-HUNDRED pages long? Does Stephen King not have an editor?

Why are all the characters - every single one of them - so annoying? Why did Beverly decide to have sex with six boys consecutively in a sewer pipe while they fled for their lives? In conclusion, I hate this book and I hate everyone who tricked me into thinking it would be good.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
DNF at around the half-way point. You know, the point where the only girl in the book had to have sex with ALL the boys to break the curse or whatever. I cringed so hard I pulled a couple dozen facial muscles. Like, WTF, Stephen King. That was completely unnecessary.

At over 1,000 pages in paperback, I had known it would be difficult read. I just didn't expect it to be impossible to finish, for all the wrong reasons. The only kind of horror that I find scary is the believable and plausible kind; otherwise it's not horror, it's just dark fantasy. And nothing about It is either believable or plausible, not the clown or the urban legends or the hauntings or the kids.
