Murder on the Orient Express - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
Well, ladies and gentlemen, that was fantastic! I mean, what can I say? Agatha Christie was a genius. So is David Suchet who narrated the audiobook (and played Poirot in the TV show).

This story is set on a filled to capacity train, heading from Stamboul (Istanbul) to London. It's the middle of winter and the snow has built up on the tracks and forced the train to a standstill on its way through Yugoslavia. This is when the murder is discovered, which luckily happens within the first 50 pages.

There are so many characters in this. It was a little difficult to keep them all straight but Suchet's voices helped. Bouc is the one more quick to jump to conclusions whereas Poirot is very methodical and waits till he has all the information and all the clues fit before committing to the assignment of guilt.

With so many suspects the evidence kept going in circles and making my head spin. I had a few theories but for the first time ever one of them was right! I didn't know why I was right until Poirot started to piece things together but once he did the answer was quite clear. I felt like the conclusion was the proper way to end the story as well.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
"The train, it is as dangerous as a sea voyage!"

So, this was my first Agatha Christie book and considering how much fun I had while I read it, it definitely won't be my last. Yes, you read correctly and your mind didn't play tricks on you: I had F.U.N!!! I actually enjoyed reading this so much I constantly found myself giggling with delight!

There were so many hints and inconsistencies that my head was literally spinning but being the curious person I am, I still tried my very best to be perceptive and to collect all those little treats. By the end of the book I felt like a squirrel, gathering all the pieces until I was finally able to make sense of them!

I actually solved the mystery and I'm so damn happy I'm still grinning and laughing like crazy!!! All things considered I really enjoyed Murder on the Orient Express and I can easily recommend it to everyone who loves to get their mind into a knot!

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
A brilliant "locked room" classic!

Murder on the Orient Express is certainly one of the finest examples of the mystery genre. In a brilliant variation of the typical British drawing room mystery, Christie places her cast of thirteen suspects together with the victim and Poirot on the Orient Express en route from Istanbul to Calais.

Through the simple process of gathering clues by interviewing the thirteen suspects, Poirot employs "the little gray cells" and intuits a positively brilliant solution. There is nothing about Murder on the Orient Express that does not deserve high praise - dialogue, characterization, colorful narrative description, plot, suspense, red herrings, and of course, a brilliant solution that deftly ties up every conceivable loose thread. And all of that is in an all too short package that can be read in the brief space of three or four thoroughly enjoyable hours.

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
A train stopped at midnight in the snow. A dead body found in a compartment. Twelve stab wounds leave no doubt it was murder. And Hercule Poirot, tasked with solving the crime, is certain the culprit is a passenger on the Orient Express.

Reading through the same set of questions over and over again is a wearisome act, one that grows more tiresome when one remembers that characters could very well be lying, making the entire exercise feel like wasted time. After Poirot completes his lengthy interview process, he regales his audience with the solution to the mystery. Those hoping to solve the case themselves will be sorely disappointed, as Poirot's ability to pinpoint the murderer is dependent on information that's unavailable to the reader.

Despite the improbability of the reveal, Christie's book leaves a lasting impression because of the uncomfortable questions it raises about justice. Murder on the Orient Express is a tedious read that reaches an unlikely, albeit unexpected, conclusion - one that lingers because of its themes.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
Maybe its because i committed the sin of seeing the film before reading the book, but i found this to be very average. not overwhelming, not underwhelming. just whelming.

Pros: the straightforward way the characters are presented, how the crime is introduced, and all the evidence that is gathered makes for a very easy way to follow poirots deductions. even though i already knew whodunnit, i still think the mystery/crime itself is creative, especially with it being confined to one location/setting.

Cons: the writing is soooo bland and sterile. there is no introspection or descriptive narrative. poirot is such a jerk! are we meant to like him? because i cant stand him. each of the twelve suspects feel like carbon copies of each other. i mixed up who was who so many times.

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
For fans of mystery stories one of the best, Agatha Christie at her prime. The little Belgian detective is much in demand. The problem for Hercule is, everyone of the passengers has a good alibi. Too many coincidences. But from royalty, the middle class, to servants, Poirot has a lot of time to think. Nothing adds up.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
My first and probably last Agatha Christie. The mystery was flat, the writing was dull, the characters were completely boring and 2-dimensional, and Poirot had zero personality. I was also taken aback by the casual racism and sexism throughout the book. I understand that it was first published in the 1930s and is a reflection of the times - but it wasn't pleasant, and some aspects were downright inaccurate. Case in point: The murder must have been a man because a woman couldn't be strong enough to do it, either physically or emotionally. The Italian man must be the suspect as the murder weapon was a knife, and Italians are known to use knives as a weapon of choice. It couldn't have been an Englishman because they don't stab people.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
I read this because I was looking forward to the movie. But what did I just read? Even for the time this book is racist AF. As in, the whole plot depends on racist stereotypes. Additionally, the writing is kind of underwhelming. There are huge plot holes and the book just isn't that sophisticated. I don't understand why this book isn't dead yet.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
Unfortunately, this was just a big big nope for me. I found Poirot himself to actually be a loathsome character; so self-righteous, and pompous, as well as racist, classist, and sexist. This has not aged well, and therefore does not sit right with me.

As for the plot itself, the 200 pages of Poirot interrogating 12 suspects, all of whom varied very little from one another, and had no real substance that made them different, was boring, to be quite frank. It was long, repetitive, and was not written in a creative way.

As for the conclusion, I will admit, I had not seen that coming, yet I was still let down as it seemed totally unlikely, and too far-fetched. I find it hard to believe that the 12 people affected by the victim's previous life all managed to book themselves on the exact same train ride.
