Pretend You Don't See Her - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
Okay, so Pretend you Don't See Her is my first Mary Higgins Clark book I've ever read, and after having just finished it, I can guarantee it won't be my last. The writing just perfectly flows together, and the mystery, oh my the mystery keeps you hooked! I can't tell you how many times something was revealed in the book only to leave me speechless, which isn't exactly easy by this point in my life, I've seen a LOT of tropes. And another thing I find absolutely dazzling is how the little details are hidden in the text for you to pay attention to, Clark adds enough one-off details on the regular that to an untrained eye, or at the least, a least suspecting eye, the tell-tale details go unnoticed until the reveal they're related to.

As you can tell I'm trying desperately to not give any spoilers, which isn't exactly easy because heavens the things that happen in this book kept me on the edge of my seat, particularly in the final few pages. I had 8 pages to go at one point and I was hoping and begging that this wasn't going to end on a massive cliff-hanger. It didn't, thankfully.

The characters! Most books have an issue of only the main character(s) feel fleshed out, but in Pretend You Don't See Her, you'll get enough little one-off details here and there about the characters to make them feel like actual real people. You can feel their personalities, their humor, and all of their reactions feel perfectly human and natural. This book quickly made it's way to my list of favorites to put it simply.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
Lacy Farrell, in her role as real estate agent, happens upon a murder in progress. She barely escapes. Nevertheless, the target victim, a woman who believes her daughter was murdered, in her dying moments gives Lacy her daughter's diary and tells Lacy possible evidence resides in the last pages.

Lacy copies the diary for the father and herself and gives the original to the police. She is soon enrolled in a witness protection program, which leaves Lacy homesick for home and family. Anxious to hurry matters along, she scours the diary pages for clues to the crime and anything else she can come up with. Somehow the killer learns of Lacy's whereabouts and is on her trail.

Plenty of red herrings pull the readers in expected and not so expected directions. And we flip the pages, silently warning Lacy to go here, not there. To say this, not that. How refreshing to read a murder mystery with clean language.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
Absolutely nothing beats a good Mary Higgins Clark book! Her books are what started me on my love affair with the suspense genre so when we received Pretend You Don't See Her, I jumped right in!!! I loved every bit of it and am now considering a full re-read of all her books.

Lacey is a successful young real estate agent in NYC. She inadvertently witnesses the murder of one of her clients and becomes the next target for the hired hit man. Forced to join the Witness Protection Program she has to start life all over but is frustrated with the lack of progress on her case. She decides to take matters into her own hands and starts to do a little digging herself. Soon she realizes that the killer has found her and she has to act quickly to save her own life before it's too late. I just love these kinds of books!!!

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
Pretend You Don't See Her was an enjoyable suspense book. Was it the best mystery/suspense novel I've read? No. But it did keep my interest and I wanted to finish it. Lacey was a good main character, but she did some very foolish things which is probably the point, since most people would most likely behave the same way in her shoes. The ending was more sudden than I expected, but it did wrap up nicely. Not my favorite of this author's books, but it was definitely a good read.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
Lacey Farrell, a successful real estate professional in Manhattan, becomes an accidental witness to a murder. The dying victim claims the killer was after her deceased daughter's journal, which Lacey hands over to the police but not before making a copy for herself. Placed in witness protection in Minneapolis, Lacey assumes a new identity. While there, she meets Tom Lynch and initiates a cautious relationship. However, when the killer tracks her down, Lacey returns to New York with determination to unveil the culprit behind the murders before becoming the next target.

I've read a few Mary Higgins Clark books before and they all seem to follow a very similar format. This one kept me entertained but there were a lot of characters that I had trouble keeping track of and remembering how they fit into the story.

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
A real estate agent who is trying to sell the apartment for the mother of a dead actress gets caught up in a real chaotic scenario. She ends up bringing in a guy to look at the apartment who ends up later killing the mother of the dead actress. The real estate agent witnesses the murder and ends up being placed in the witness protection program.

It was a good story. Mary Higgins Clark had written it to where a lot of characters in the story could have been the murderer. It will definitely keep you guessing on the who did it. It was a good read but not a definite must read.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
I'm in the minority here. And I don't mind. Just a friendly advice: do not read this author immediately after reading a Ken Follett or John Boyne book or it will be hard to be fair. At least the book is very small. Although the book has 318 pages, there are 65 chapters, all very short, with huge gaps and perhaps double spacing.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
Honestly, I am so frustrated. This book is so wildly improbable that I cannot see HOW I ever enjoyed it. This book also makes me seriously question my judgement, as Mary Higgins Clark was once my favorite mystery author. Lacey witnesses a murder, she is placed in witness protection, she almost immediately gives away her location to her mother, who lacks the discretion or common sense to keep that information to herself. The city that Lacey is placed in just happens to be where two people who knew the first murder victim live. This book just progressively gets worse. The heroine and her mom are TSTL and at times I was rooting for the hitman to get her.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
A poor attempt at mystery/thriller. I've read some of MHC's books so I'm quite familiar with the way she writes but this book is just frustratingly stupid that I just skimmed the book in under an hour. There are inconsistencies that bothered me and the poorly researched police actions just doesn't make sense. I can't believe I wasted my time reading this.
