Then She Was Gone - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (1 star):
This was a fairly average experience for me. It's a very quick read - I read it in a single day - and it goes down smoothly and easily, but it is so easy to predict everything that will happen. I was always several chapters ahead of the characters and it sapped a lot of tension out of the story.

I can see why, with a better plot, Jewell is a great writer. The relationships and characters were fleshed out and interesting. Laurel's pain over her missing daughter is palpable and realistic. The loss of Ellie felt like a real thing, not something that exists only inside a book. It's a shame, though, that we know a major aspect of Ellie's fate almost immediately, seeing as this is probably what I would have cared about most.

In the wake of Ellie's disappearance ten years ago, her mother and father have split and the family has been torn apart by losing its "golden child". Laurel, Ellie's mother, is struggling to get her life back on track and save her relationships with her two remaining children. A new romance with a guy called Floyd makes her think that she may finally be moving on, until she meets his youngest daughter, Poppy, who looks shockingly like Ellie.

It sort of feels like I've read a hundred different variations of the missing daughter/grieving mother plot, and Then She Was Gone doesn't really do anything new with it. The writing is strong, but it's disappointing when you figure out all the major reveals in the first few chapters and even get the reasons behind them. As soon as certain characters are introduced, I was thinking "ah, got it" and, unfortunately, I was right. I kept hoping something exciting would happen to prove me wrong, but it really is as obvious as it seems.

I'm also not totally convinced about the biological possibility of one plot point.

Then She Was Gone was fine as an undemanding beach thriller, but I wouldn't recommend it for readers looking for something new and innovative.

REVIEW 2 (1 star):
My first book by Lisa Jewell, although a sad and intriguing story, it simply failed to impress me.

The way it was written wasn't meant for me. It was dull, lifeless and slow paced. The characters didn't appeal to me. The way they expressed themselves was just so monotonous. There was no emotion to them, despite being in such an emotional situation.

The whole mystery was quite predictable. But it was still sad. I had sympathy for the main characters- Ellie and Laurel. But overall, I just wanted the book to be over.

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
Edgy, Dark and Addictive

This turned out to be quite a stunner. I've read lots of psychological thrillers and this one caught me off guard. Much more than your typical missing daughter plot. Scattered with hints of some shocking revelations to come.

This is my fourth Lisa Jewell novel and I'm a huge fan. I love her writing style and how she keeps me totally absorbed in the story line. The more I read, the more invested I became and started to care about some of the key characters. Told in multiple POVs we get to learn about their motivations as secrets come out. Somewhere around seventy percent, it became unputdownable as so many shockers were thrown at me. I'm pretty sure I was talking to myself about what was happening!

Laurel's teenage daughter, Ellie goes missing, she is a smart and clever girl. In time, Laurel meets a charming man who she is very attracted to. When she meets his teenage daughter, she can't shake the feeling of how much she reminds her of her beloved Ellie. Well, what the heck is going on here? You'll have to read it to find out!

There is an emotional punch as the tension builds towards the dramatic end.

REVIEW 4 (4.5 stars):
Then She Was Gone by Lisa Jewell is a 2018 Atria Books publication.

Well, this was certainly different!

Missing persons tropes are common in mysteries and thrillers, and the theme has been written and explored in many predictable ways, but also in many clever, even shocking ways. But, no matter how it is presented, it is a scenario that never fails to draw me in. But, I must say, this novel puts an entirely new and fresh spin on the missing persons mystery.

The story begins like so many others - Ellie, a conscientious teenager, and the apple of her mother's eye, left to visit the library and was never seen or heard from again. Laurel, Ellie's mother, couldn't understand how her other children and her husband were able to move on with their lives without knowing what happened to Ellie. Laurel's life stalled, her marriage fell apart and the relationship with her two remaining children is strained.

But, finally, after years of just going through the motions of life, Laurel meets Floyd, a single dad with a young daughter named Poppy. The connection between Laurel and Floyd is immediate and heady. But, when Laurel finally gets to meet Poppy, she is unnerved by the uncanny resemblance to her daughter, Ellie. She even smells like Ellie, which kicks Laurel's natural maternal instincts into high gear. This and another small coincidence, puts new thoughts into Laurel's head, prompting her to do a little amateur sleuthing.

She never in a million years could have predicted the shocking revelations her inquiries would uncover or the personal epiphanies that would change Laurel's life forevermore. Is it possible that Laurel could, at long last, find all the answers about her daughter's disappearance?

This story was very dark, gloomy, and creepy, but also quite emotional and poignant. Laurel's voice is so realistic, raw, and sympathetic, she nearly had me believing she was a real person and that this was a true story. Her emergence from a tortuous state of limbo and her fierce determination to get to the truth, and begin truly living life again was an amazing transformation.

I think Lisa Jewell has written a chilling novel of suspense, but it is also a book about the power of maternal love, forgiveness and healing and never giving up.

REVIEW 5 (2 stars):
At the end of the book, the author mentions that her agent had an audacious and shocking idea for Then She Was Gone which the author championed. Its quite obvious the UK standards of shocking differ extremely wildly from American standards.

I saw the twist coming a mile away because I recall a similar plot on an old Law & Order: Special Victims Unit episode nearly a decade ago. And the episode was way more believable than what I read.

When teenage Ellie Mack does not return home from the library, her mother Laurel is convinced something terrible has happened, even though the authorities have written her off as a runaway. When her daughter's bones are discovered years later, Laurel feels she can finally move on with her life. She meets a man at a cafe not long after the burial of her favorite child.

Floyd is kind and sensitive and has a young daughter named Poppy, who looks inexplicably like Ellie. Who is Floyd? Just as importantly, who is Poppy?

As Laurel unravels the horrors of Poppy's origins and Floyd's true intentions, she comes to terms with the loss of her daughter and reconciling with the children she still has.

REVIEW 6 (1 star):
Clearly in the minority with this one, but since it's my opinion of the book here goes...

Ellie Mack was a fifteen year old girl when she mysteriously disappeared without a trace on her way to the library. Everyone who knew her was impressed with the beautiful and intelligent teen, especially her mother Laurel. Ten years go by and Laurel's life hasn't advanced much, even though her remaining two children and now ex-husband have managed to moved on, Laurel remains stuck. Police seem to have written Ellie off as a runaway. Her mother knows better.

Then She Was Gone was all over the place. POV, tense, time - it all bounced from place to place and I honestly found that the author spoke in the same voice regardless of whose POV I was reading. The majority of the book was written in present tense, which I HATE.

Laurel's character was completely and utterly unlikable. In fact, the phrase dumber than a box of rocks comes to mind. All clues point to some very dastardly doings, but Laurel plows ahead full on with her new relationship with Floyd and the odd little Poppy. And the way Laurel treated and spoke to her family was appalling. She literally had no redeeming qualities whatsoever. I never once felt any compassion for her. On the other hand, I was heartbroken for Ellie.

REVIEW 7 (4 stars):
Totally enjoyable.

As a couple of friends said they were pretty sure what happened to Ellie who had gone missing early in their reading - me too - but I didn't know why. All I knew was that Ellie was a bright girl - an excellent student - and that her mother Laurel had a special love for her in ways she definitely didn't her other two children.

Much about this story felt real. While on the way to the library a child is never to be seen again. It gives me chills thinking of the missing children I still remember from years ago.

Besides the suspense, the characters hearts are tender - I felt what they did - none were offensive. The more I read - the more I wanted to keep reading. Lisa Jewel wrote a jewel of a great suspenseful book with terrific fantastic characters. The epilogue - I'll just say WOW! An ending and book I'm likely NOT to forget.

REVIEW 8 (3 stars):
wow. okay. maybe i wont be playing the whole predict what happens based on the synopsis only game because it turns out i only got 1 out of 4 guesses right and its not a good look for my ego. lol.

also, i was super into the version of the story i had imagined before reading this and what actually happened feels disappointing. i dunno how to describe it. everything just fell flat for me about 100 pages in. even though my original guesses were wrong, its VERY obvious what will happen early on in the story, and so it just started to feel drawn out by the halfway point. its much more of a contemporary/drama fiction vibe than a mystery/thriller.

still, not the worst book out there. i definitely would have loved this more if my predictions had been right, but thats completely my own fault.
