The Woman in the Window - Reader Reviews

REVIEW 1 (5 stars):
I am SO BLOWN AWAY BY THIS NOVEL. The Woman In The Window is an absolutely amazing debut mystery-thriller. I cannot recommend it enough.

My favorite part of this novel is the writing style. A.J. Finn has the perfect sort of prose that forces you to think, "How can someone ACTUALLY think like this? How does someone form the words to illustrate such a perfect passage?" This book is descriptive in a way I did not know ordinary things could be described. The writing is so beautiful. SO BEAUTIFUL.

Being honest, The Woman in the Window is a bit slow to start. It took quite a few hours for the plot to really settle in. I feel the best way to describe the beginning of the book is "mundane." We follow Anna through her routine, isolated days for many chapters at the start of the story with few peaks in plot to keep the story exciting. That being said, I can't truthfully say it was boring. A.J. Finn's writing is so intoxicating that reading about Anna sitting at her computer was enjoyable.

But of course, one of the absolute best aspects of the book is the immaculate plot. I love a thriller novel that has so many plot twists which all can convince me that the following twist is more believable than the last. The Woman In The Window is one of my favorites that I have ever read.

REVIEW 2 (5 stars):
For the past 10 months Anna has been trapped inside the four walls she calls home. She can't bring herself to take a single step outside. Anna is an agoraphobic. Her days are filled with pills to control her anxiety and other ailments followed by a bottle or two of wine to wash it all down. Her life outside her home is only viewed through her Nikon camera, where she watches her neighbors' daily routines.

When she witnesses an attack in the home across the street no one will believe her. Not the home owners, not even the police! Anna begins to question if it's a side effect of her medication, or is there a reason no one wants to believe her.

This book started out very slow for me. That confusion quickly cleared as the pace revved up. Soon I was in full speed thriller mode! What an incredible ride. A.J. Finn had me questioning everyone from Anna herself to a grandmother in Montana! Some of the twists were predictable - but that didn't take away from my enjoyment. The big finale of a twist was absolutely perfect! Didn't see that one coming at all!

REVIEW 3 (5 stars):
I loved it! This book has restored my faith in psychological thrillers and was a solid 5 star reading experience. It's well-written, perfectly plotted, and riveting. I had trouble putting it down and became annoyed when life interrupted my reading.

Anna is a 38 year-old child psychologist with agoraphobia, who hasn't left her home for over a year. I loved the psychological aspect of the novel and being privy to Anna's thoughts and actions as she struggled with depression and agoraphobia. I had enormous sympathy for her.

One of my favorite parts of the story was Anna's love for old black and white classic movies, such as Rear Window, Gaslight, and Stranger on a Train. Did Anna really see what she claimed happened, or is she blurring the lines between reality and what she was watching on her tv screen every night? The author does a marvelous job keeping the reader guessing.

There are twists along the way, all revealed at just the right time. And what a surprising ending it was! This is an amazing debut.

REVIEW 4 (3 stars):
You don't know how happy I was to get my greedy little paws on both the audio and Kindle versions of THE WOMAN IN THE WINDOW. My expectations were through the roof! As it turns out, the book doesn't live up to the hype.

You know how much I love my unreliable narrators and our girl, Anna, is a doozy. Although she is terrified to step outside of her home, all kinds of interesting events still manage to take place in her small neighborhood. We can't trust Anna's narration because she is depressed and suffering from a traumatic event. And she pops a lot of pills and glugs wine as a chaser.

But you know those people that use too many words and make simple matters overly boring? AJ Finn is one of those kind of writers. The book is so long and repetitive. It has an interesting, yet heavily borrowed upon plot and there are a couple of major twists. The plot twists are predictable, you will see them from a mile away.

Finn shoves a ton of film references into the storyline. At first, I loved it. Then, it becomes too much. It's as if he's saying, "I'm not borrowing plot lines, I'm just referencing them." There is not a single original concept about this book. Ultimately, underwhelming.

REVIEW 5 (3 stars):
I don't know if this is an unpopular opinion but I'm getting a bit tired of reading mysteries where the main female character is an alcoholic. I get it, it makes them unreliable but it's a cheap way of doing it.

In this book, you're following a psychologist who went through something traumatic that left her agoraphobic and an alcoholic. Sadly I saw the twists coming and some parts towards the end just didn't feel right. However, I definitely felt like staying home and drinking... and I don't drink so I guess something in there worked.

If you're looking for what others have described as a popcorn read then this might be it for you!

REVIEW 6 (3 stars):
Anna Fox was once an active child psychologist with a wonderful life. But after a traumatic event almost a year ago, everything changed. She now suffers from agoraphobia. Her home is her entire world. Anna's life now consists of old movies, a lot of wine and prescription pills, and online chat rooms. She's also found another way to spend her time: watching the neighbors through her camera lens.

To be honest, I had a hard time getting into the story at first. I wasn't connecting to the story and characters as well as many other readers did. I think I may have been expecting something different. I did enjoy the last part of the book so I am glad that I didn't stop reading. There were some very good twists, though I did figure out a few things ahead of time. Overall I thought this was a decent psychological suspense novel.

REVIEW 7 (1 star):
Someone once famously told that if a book doesn't draw an emotional response, we can't call it a thriller. This is one such book that fails to evoke any emotion in us. The easiest way to write a psychological thriller nowadays is by making a psychiatrist/psychologist the protagonist or the main villain. It is high time that the authors get out of this comfort zone.

It is sad to see many authors trying to just copy the success of Gillian Flynn by trying to replicate her way of writing instead of trying something unique. The author tried to write this novel according to the textbook definition of a psychological thriller and made a mockery out of it despite having a fantastic plot by creating a soporific piece of didactic fiction dilapidated with myriad cliches.

REVIEW 8 (1 star):
The Woman in the Window received generous praise in reviews from prestigious media outlets. It was those intriguing reviews that led me to read the book, which features a drunk, pill popping, depressed, agoraphobic woman.

From the first pages, I was distracted by the overly descriptive text resulting in awkward mental pictures. I found the dialog sparse and choppy. Example: "He's standing there, luminous in the dark. Strong teeth bolting from strong gums." Strong bolting teeth in strong gums? The mental image created in my head pictured teeth bolting out of a mouth like greyhounds and clattering to the floor.

In one single chapter, the troubled narrator pinched her eyelids closed, crammed her eyes shut, crushed her eyelids shut, screwed her eyes tighter still, and so on. I began to obsess about those overworked eyes and quit following the plot. I do not recommend this book.

REVIEW 9 (1 star):
The beginning of this book is too long, without any activity; and the writing, particularly the dialog, is amateurish. The repetition was like fingernails on a chalkboard. "I jammed my eyelids closed." "I crammed my eyelids closed." "I screwed my eyelids shut." "I crushed my eyes closed." I've never read so many different ways to open and close one's eyes.

I found the flowery similes, metaphors and overly descriptive verbiage extremely tiresome. Hundreds and hundreds of similes that make no sense but are just pretentious. Much too long and tedious! Something finally happens, but I didn't really care because I didn't care about any of the characters by that point.
